Academic Catalog 2023-2024

Home› Course Descriptions› Analytics - CPS (ALY)

Analytics - CPS (ALY)
Courses

2023-2024 EDITION

Undergraduate

ALY 1990. Elective. (1-4 Hours)
Offers elective credit for courses taken at other academic institutions. May be repeated without limit.

College of Professional Studies
Undergraduate

ALY 2010. Probability Theory and Introductory Statistics. (3 Hours)
Introduces statistics for data analytics from an analysis-of-data viewpoint. Topics include frequency
distributions; measures of location; mean, median, mode; measures of dispersion; variance; graphic
presentation; elementary probability; populations and samples; sampling distributions; categorical data;
regression and correlation; and analysis of variance. Explores the use of statistical software in data analysis.
Emphasizes hands-on application of probability and statistics in SPSS.

Graduate
Course Descriptions
Accounting (ACCT)
Accounting - CPS (ACC)

Prerequisite(s): MTH 1100 with a minimum grade of D- or MTH 1200 with a minimum grade of D- or
MTH 2100 with a minimum grade of D-

Advanced Manufacturing Systems
- CPS (AVM)

ALY 2100. Introduction to Programming for Data Analytics. (3 Hours)
Offers a hands-on first programming course for those with no prior programming experience. Covers basic
programming logic and syntax with Python. Students apply Python packages mostly used on data analytics.
Offers students an opportunity to learn how to code on the most used language in the job market.

African American Studies (AFAM)
Africana Studies (AFCS)
African Studies (AFRS)

Prerequisite(s): (MTH 2400 with a minimum grade of D- or PHL 2310 with a minimum grade of D- ); ITC 2300
with a minimum grade of D-

American Sign Language (AMSL)

ALY 3015. Intermediate Statistics for Data Analytics. (3 Hours)
Expands upon the earlier introduced statistical approaches. Emphasizes more advanced analysis and
multivariate methods. The goal is to provide students with the fundamental data management, review,
reengineering, and exploration skills as necessary data analytical competencies.

Analytics - CPS (ALY)
Anthropology (ANTH)
Anthropology - CPS (ANT)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 2010 with a minimum grade of D-

Applied Logistics - CPS (APL)

ALY 3040. Data Mining. (3 Hours)
Introduces the theories and tools for data mining techniques such as rule-based learning, decision trees,
clustering, and association-rule mining. Also covers interpretation of the mined patterns using visualization
techniques. Offers students an opportunity to gain the knowledge and experience to apply modern datamining techniques for effective large-scale data pattern recognition and insight discovery. Introduces data
analysis software—student teams evaluate, analyze, and report data for the methods used and insights
discovered during case studies.

Arabic (ARAB)
Architecture (ARCH)
Army ROTC (ARMY)
Art - CPS (ART)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 2100 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 3015 with a minimum grade of DArt - Design (ARTG)

ALY 3070. Communication and Visualization for Data Analytics. (3 Hours)
Offers an interdisciplinary examination of design concepts and cognitive and communication theories that
support effective practices for data visualization and communication. Considers the relationship between
information and audience and studies effective techniques in the written, spoken, and visual communication of
complex quantitative information. Project-based activities offer students opportunities to apply these
techniques in a manner that makes data understandable, compelling, and actionable. Introduces R and Python
visualization packages.

Art - Fundamentals (ARTF)
Art - General (ARTE)
Art - History (ARTH)
Art - Media Arts (ARTD)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 2100 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 3015 with a minimum grade of D-

Art - Studio (ARTS)

ALY 3110. Big Data and Web Mining. (3 Hours)
Offers students an opportunity to work with very large data sets and to learn how to write code to search the
World Wide Web for publicly available data in a methodical and automated manner.

Arts Administration and Cultural
Entrepreneurship (AACE)
Asian Studies (ASNS)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 2100 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 3015 with a minimum grade of DBehavioral Neuroscience (BNSC)

Attribute(s): NUpath Analyzing/Using Data

Biochemistry (BIOC)

ALY 4000. Analytics Using R. (3 Hours)
Offers an overview of analytics concepts and practices across a diverse range of organizational contexts.
Introduces data structure and management using R and SQL R packages. Leverages big data using Hadoop,
Spark, and R scripting. Engages students in discussions on analytics careers and their ethical considerations.
Introduces the basics of business strategies for big data analytics through a final project.

Bioengineering (BIOE)
Bioinformatics (BINF)
Biology (BIOL)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 2010 with a minimum grade of D- ; ITC 2300 with a minimum grade of D-

Biology - CPS (BIO)

ALY 4020. Predictive Analytics Using R and Python. (3 Hours)
Introduces the end-to-end data-driven predictive modeling approach in R, Python, KNIME and WEKA with
applications and case studies. Includes all the data and modeling steps in a full modeling cycle (training,
validation and testing), exploratory data analysis and data cleansing, commonly applied modeling techniques
such as SVM, random forest and ensemble models; introduces neural networks using TensorFlow.

Biotechnology (BIOT)
Biotechnology - CPS (BTC)
Business Administration (BUSN)

Prerequisite(s): (ALY 2100 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 3015 with a minimum grade of D- ) or ALY 3040
with a minimum grade of D-

Cardiopulmonary and Exercise
Science (EXSC)

ALY 4850. Analytics Capstone. (3 Hours)
Offers an advanced practicum in the development and delivery of data analysis for strategic decision making in
organizations. Students apply the principles and tools of analytics to a comprehensive real-world problem or
project within a sponsoring organization. Expects students to present analytical insights and recommendations
for successful implementation of their capstone project.

Chemical Engineering (CHME)
Chemistry - CPS (CHM)
Chemistry and Chemical Biology
(CHEM)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 3040 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 3070 with a minimum grade of D- ; ALY 4000 with
a minimum grade of D-

Chinese (CHNS)

Attribute(s): NUpath Capstone Experience, NUpath Writing Intensive

Civil and Environmental
Engineering (CIVE)

ALY 5000. Introduction to Analytics. (2.25 Hours)
Offers an overview of analytics concepts and practices across a diverse range of industries and organizational
contexts. Provides a hands-on introduction to statistics, data management, and the R scripting language.
Technical projects based on introductory statistics and the R language offer students an opportunity to
understand and apply the theories, practices, and application of analytics to real-world problems. An initial
exploration of data sets illustrates how fundamental data analysis can impact decision making at both the
strategic and operational level. Students research case studies to examine careers and professional
opportunities in both for-profit and nonprofit industry segments.

Co-op/Experiential Education in
Arts, Media, and Design (EEAM)
Co-op/Experiential Education in
Business (EEBA)
Co-op/Experiential Education in
Science (EESC)
Co-op/Experiential Education in
Social Sciences and Humanities
(EESH)

ALY 5010. Probability Theory and Introductory Statistics. (2.25 Hours)
Introduces statistics for business analytics from an analysis-of-data viewpoint. Topics include frequency
distributions; measures of location; mean, median, mode; measures of dispersion, variance, graphic
presentation; elementary probability; populations and samples; sampling distributions; and categorical data.
Includes a preliminary introduction to regression and correlation. Uses statistical software (for data analysis
during analytic project assignments) to provide a hands-on experience to observe how probability and
statistics, scripting, and basic data management impact decision making at all levels within a corporation.

Commerce and Economic
Development - CPS (CED)
Communication Studies (COMM)
Communication Studies - CPS
(CMN)
Communication Studies - CPS
Specialty (CMMN)

ALY 5015. Intermediate Analytics. (2.25 Hours)
Builds on the foundation provided in ALY 6000 and ALY 6010 by exploring at greater depth the tools of data
correction and recoding, as well as those of statistics and R. Offers students an opportunity to learn to discern
and validate meaningful and statistically significant patterns in data through sound applications of the
scientific method. Emphasizes initial mastery of correlation and regression, ANOVA, GLM, and logistic
regression. Introduces the more advanced techniques of multivariable regression and nonparametric statistics
and sampling. The goal of this course is to offer students an opportunity to master the fundamental skills of
data management, analysis, and communication, which are the core data analytical competencies required of
today’s analytic professionals.

Computer Engineering
Technology - CPS (CET)
Computer Science (CS)
Computer Systems Engineering
(CSYE)
Construction Management - CPS
(CMG)

ALY 5030. Data Warehousing and SQL. (2.25 Hours)
Focuses on the management, mining, and interpretation of patterns in large databases. Offers students an
opportunity to learn how organizations construct data warehouses from operational databases, about
different data warehouse architectures, how to build a data warehouse, and how to structure databases for
efficient data mining. Discusses relational databases and Structured Query Language (SQL) for the
fundamentals in data modeling, database management, and SQL queries. Introduces other modern database
systems such as NoSQL (non SQL) and column-based databases.

Cooperative Education (COOP)
Cooperative Education - CPS
(COP)
Cooperative/Experiential
Education (EXED)
Corporate Innovation (INNO)

ALY 5040. Data Mining Applications. (2.25 Hours)
Introduces the theories and tools for intensive data analysis methods and data mining techniques such as rulebased learning, decision trees, clustering, and association-rule mining. Also covers interpretation of the mined
patterns using visualization techniques. Offers students an opportunity to gain the knowledge and experience
to apply modern data-mining techniques for effective large-scale data pattern recognition and insight
discovery. Introduces data analysis software; student teams evaluate, analyze, and report data for the methods
used and insights discovered during case studies.

Counseling and Applied
Educational Psychology (CAEP)
Criminal Justice (CRIM)
Criminal Justice - CPS (CJS)
Culture (CLTR)

ALY 5050. Introduction to Enterprise Analytics. (2.25 Hours)
Introduces advanced specific analysis techniques—including forecasting, simulation, linear programming,
regressive modeling, and optimization—as well as the Python programming language. The more advanced
mathematical, statistical, and presentation functions within the R library packages are heavily utilized.
Emphasizes enterprise data analytics, which is the extensive use of data, statistical, and quantitative analysis;
exploratory and predictive models; and fact-based decision making to drive business strategies and actions.
Course projects embrace marketing, retail, financial, and human resources analytics, as well as familiarize
students with general industry practices. Emphasizes end-to-end analytic development skills, including data
management, data engineering, analytics modeling, and strategy development. Offers students hands-on
opportunities to apply quantitative techniques in strategic business decision making.

Cybersecurity (CY)
Data Analytics (DA)
Data Architecture Management
(DAMG)
Data Science (DS)
Deaf Studies (DEAF)
Digital Media - CPS (DGM)

ALY 5070. Communication and Visualization for Data Analytics. (2.25 Hours)
Offers an interdisciplinary examination of design concepts and cognitive and communication theories that
support effective practices for data visualization and communication. Considers the relationship between
information and audience and studies effective techniques in the written, spoken, and visual communication of
complex quantitative information. Project-based activities offer students opportunities to apply these
techniques in a manner that makes data understandable, compelling, and actionable. Introduces R Shiny,
Tableau and R in the lab sessions as the tool for data visualization.

Digital Transformation (DGTR)
Earth and Environmental Sciences
(ENVR)
Earth Sciences - CPS (ESC)
Ecology, Evolution, and Marine
Biology (EEMB)

ALY 5110. Data Management and Big Data. (2.25 Hours)
Designed to provide the student with the core concepts of data collection and management. Topics include
systems for collecting data and implications for practice; types of data (textual, quantitative, qualitative, etc.);
and storing data with privacy and security issues in mind. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a high-level
understanding of big data technologies for data accessibility, efficiency, and security of data management at
scale, including big data storage and computing technologies and big data analytics applications. Students
create a working system for data acquisition and management using publicly available data sets and evaluate
traditional data warehouse platforms as well as cloud-based big data storage and computing technologies.
Azure is also introduced and used in the lab sessions.

Economics (ECON)
Economics - CPS (ECN)
Economics - CPS Specialty
(ECNM)
Education (EDUC)
Education - CPS (EDU)
Electrical and Computer
Engineering (EECE)

ALY 6000. Introduction to Analytics. (3 Hours)
Offers an overview of analytics concepts and practices across a diverse range of industries and organizational
contexts. Provides a hands-on introduction to statistics, data management, and the R scripting language.
Technical projects based on introductory statistics and the R language offer students an opportunity to
understand and apply the theories, practices, and application of analytics to real-world problems. An initial
exploration of data sets illustrates how fundamental data analysis can impact decision making at both the
strategic and operational level. Students research case studies to examine careers and professional
opportunities in both for-profit and nonprofit industry segments.

Electrical Engineering Technology
- CPS (EET)
Energy Systems (ENSY)
Engineering Cooperative
Education (ENCP)
Engineering Interdisciplinary
(ENGR)

ALY 6010. Probability Theory and Introductory Statistics. (3 Hours)
Introduces statistics for business analytics from an analysis-of-data viewpoint. Topics include frequency
distributions; measures of location; mean, median, mode; measures of dispersion, variance, graphic
presentation; elementary probability; populations and samples; sampling distributions; and categorical data.
Includes a preliminary introduction to regression and correlation. Uses statistical software (for data analysis
during analytic project assignments) to provide a hands-on experience to observe how probability and
statistics, scripting, and basic data management impact decision making at all levels within a corporation.

Engineering Leadership (ENLR)
Engineering Management (EMGT)
English (ENGL)
English - CPS (ENG)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C-

English as a Second Language CPS Specialty (ESLG)

ALY 6015. Intermediate Analytics. (3 Hours)
Builds on the foundation provided in ALY 6000 and ALY 6010 by exploring at greater depth the tools of data
correction and recoding, as well as those of statistics and R. Offers students an opportunity to learn to discern
and validate meaningful and statistically significant patterns in data through sound applications of the
scientific method. Emphasizes initial mastery of correlation and regression, ANOVA, GLM, and logistic
regression. Introduces the more advanced techniques of multivariable regression and nonparametric statistics
and sampling. The goal of this course is to offer students an opportunity to master the fundamental skills of
data management, analysis, and communication, which are the core data analytical competencies required of
today’s analytic professionals.

English as Second Language - CPS
(ESL)
English Writing (ENGW)
Enterprise Artificial Intelligence
(EAI)
Entrepreneurship and Innovation
(ENTR)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of CEnvironmental Studies (ENVS)

ALY 6020. Predictive Analytics. (3 Hours)
Introduces the end-to-end, data-driven statistical and predictive modeling approach with applications and case
studies. Includes all the data and modeling steps in a full modeling cycle, including data ETL process,
exploratory data analysis, and data cleansing for outlier imputation and data normalization. Commonly applied
modeling techniques such as k-nearest neighbors, GLM, random forest, neural networks, and Naive Bayes are
heavily utilized and explained using advanced visualization techniques and simplified mathematical derivations
to enhance understanding. Predictive analytic modeling steps such as model training, validation, and testing
are widely utilized, as are tools and languages for data processing, analysis, and modeling.

Extended Realities (EXRE)
Finance - CPS (FIN)
Finance and Insurance (FINA)
First-Year Seminar (FSEM)
French (FRNH)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6015 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6070 with a minimum grade of C-

Game Design (GAME)

ALY 6030. Data Warehousing and SQL. (3 Hours)
Focuses on the management, mining, and interpretation of patterns in large databases. Offers students an
opportunity to learn how organizations construct data warehouses from operational databases, about
different data warehouse architectures, how to build a data warehouse, and how to structure databases for
efficient data mining. Discusses relational databases and Structured Query Language (SQL) for the
fundamentals in data modeling, database management, and SQL queries. Introduces other modern database
systems such as NoSQL (non SQL) and column-based databases.

Game Science and Design (GSND)
General Engineering (GE)
General Engineering Technology CPS (GET)
General Studies (GENS)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6015 with a minimum grade of C-

Geographic Information Systems CPS (GIS)

ALY 6040. Data Mining Applications. (3 Hours)
Introduces the theories and tools for intensive data analysis methods and data mining techniques such as rulebased learning, decision trees, clustering, and association-rule mining. Also covers interpretation of the mined
patterns using visualization techniques. Offers students an opportunity to gain the knowledge and experience
to apply modern data-mining techniques for effective large-scale data pattern recognition and insight
discovery. Introduces data analysis software; student teams evaluate, analyze, and report data for the methods
used and insights discovered during case studies.

German (GRMN)
Global Studies - CPS (GST)
Global Studies (GBST)

Prerequisite(s): (ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (EAI 6000
with a minimum grade of C- ; EAI 6010 with a minimum grade of C- )

Health Informatics (HINF)
Health Management - CPS (HMG)

ALY 6050. Introduction to Enterprise Analytics. (3 Hours)
Introduces advanced specific analysis techniques—including forecasting, simulation, linear programming,
regressive modeling, and optimization—as well as the Python programming language. The more advanced
mathematical, statistical, and presentation functions within the R library packages are heavily utilized.
Emphasizes enterprise data analytics, which is the extensive use of data, statistical, and quantitative analysis;
exploratory and predictive models; and fact-based decision making to drive business strategies and actions.
Course projects embrace marketing, retail, financial, and human resources analytics, as well as familiarize
students with general industry practices. Emphasizes end-to-end analytic development skills, including data
management, data engineering, analytics modeling, and strategy development. Offers students hands-on
opportunities to apply quantitative techniques in strategic business decision making.

Health Science (HSCI)
Health Science - CPS (HSC)
Health Science - Interdisciplinary
(HLTH)
Hebrew (HBRW)
History (HIST)
History - CPS (HST)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C-

History - CPS Specialty (HSTY)

ALY 6060. Decision Support and Business Intelligence. (3 Hours)
Introduces current and emerging business analytical concepts and information technologies to support
decision making and business intelligence. Commercial decision support systems in various application areas
are introduced and discussed using case studies, including CRM (customer relationship management) for
customer management, web analytics applications, sales force management systems, etc. Introduces business
intelligence technology and applications, such as OLAP (Online Analytical Processing), OBIEE (Oracle Business
Intelligence Enterprise Edition), and IBM Cognos. Offers students an opportunity to gain hands-on experience
using business intelligence tools, including Tableau or QlikView.

Homeland Security - CPS (HLS)
Honors Program (HONR)
Human Resources Management
(HRMG)
Human Resources Management CPS (HRM)

ALY 6070. Communication and Visualization for Data Analytics. (3 Hours)
Offers an interdisciplinary examination of design concepts and cognitive and communication theories that
support effective practices for data visualization and communication. Considers the relationship between
information and audience and studies effective techniques in the written, spoken, and visual communication of
complex quantitative information. Project-based activities offer students opportunities to apply these
techniques in a manner that makes data understandable, compelling, and actionable. Introduces R Shiny,
Tableau and R in the lab sessions as the tool for data visualization.

Human Services (HUSV)
Human Services - CPS (HSV)
Industrial Engineering (IE)
Information Science (IS)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C-

Information Systems Program
(INFO)

ALY 6080. Integrated Experiential Learning. (3 Hours)
Offers a practicum in the development and delivery of predictive data analysis for strategic decision making in
organizations. Offers students an opportunity to apply the principles and tools of analytics to real-world
problems in business organizations and to develop and present analytical insights and recommendations for
successful implementation of their capstone project.

Information Technology - CPS
(ITC)
Insurance - CPS (INS)
Interdisciplinary Studies - CPS
(INT)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6015 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6050 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6070 with a
minimum grade of C-

Interdisciplinary Studies - Office
of the Provost (INPR)

ALY 6110. Data Management and Big Data. (3 Hours)
Designed to provide the student with the core concepts of data collection and management. Topics include
systems for collecting data and implications for practice; types of data (textual, quantitative, qualitative, etc.);
and storing data with privacy and security issues in mind. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a high-level
understanding of big data technologies for data accessibility, efficiency, and security of data management at
scale, including big data storage and computing technologies and big data analytics applications. Students
create a working system for data acquisition and management using publicly available data sets and evaluate
traditional data warehouse platforms as well as cloud-based big data storage and computing technologies.
Azure is also introduced and used in the lab sessions.

Interdisciplinary Studies in Arts,
Media, and Design (INAM)
Interdisciplinary Studies in
Science (INSC)
Interdisciplinary Studies in Social
Sciences and Humanities (INSH)
International Affairs (INTL)

Prerequisite(s): (ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (EAI 6000
with a minimum grade of C- ; EAI 6010 with a minimum grade of C- )

International Business (INTB)
Interpreting (INTP)

ALY 6120. Leadership in Analytics. (3 Hours)
Covers analytical leadership principles for the structure and dynamics of organizations, combining relevant
research to offer students an opportunity to deepen their understanding of effective change in business
analytical decision making.

Italian (ITLN)
Japanese (JPNS)
Jewish Studies (JWSS)

ALY 6130. Risk Management for Analytics. (3 Hours)
Seeks to provide a conceptual overview of analytic risk management. Offers students an opportunity to
evaluate and analyze financial, technical, and other business risk-assessment and risk-modeling techniques and
tools.

Journalism (JRNL)
Korean (KORE)
Landscape Architecture (LARC)

ALY 6140. Python and Analytics Systems Technology. (3 Hours)
Presents a selection of analytics systems technologies that are deployed in lab sessions throughout the course.
A multitude of analytics systems technologies are used for different purposes to describe data numerically and
graphically, for data visualization, file systems (HFS) for a large data mart, applications of structured query
language, and filtering and transforming to ingest the data through scripting languages. Focused primarily on
Python, topics covered include the differences between R and Python, data ingestion, data manipulation,
visualization, and predictive analytics using common Python libraries.

Latin American and Caribbean
Studies (LACS)
Law (for Non-Law School
Students) (LW)
Law (LAW)
Law and Policy - CPS (LWP)

ALY 6150. Healthcare/Pharmaceutical Data and Applications. (3 Hours)
Introduces a selection of healthcare/pharmaceutical data used for a variety of purposes, and its specific
application in data-driven business decision making. Healthcare/Pharmaceutical data is collected as part of
Medicare and Medicaid databases and as mandated by the PPACA (Patient and Affordable Care Act) and the
PPSA (Physicians Payment Sunshine Act). Data is available in the form of medical records, social networks,
outcomes databases, syndicated data reports, epidemiological data, demographic data, analyst information,
RD Pipeline Database, market data, and online journals and newsletters. Organizations, corporations, and
companies use these varieties of data for a host of different reasons - to better profile and segment customers,
to answer performance questions, and to identify and capture key opportunities.

Law and Public Policy (LPSC)
Leadership Studies - CPS (LDR)
Legal Studies (LS)
Liberal Studies - CPS (LST)
Linguistics (LING)

Prerequisite(s): (ALY 6000 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a
minimum grade of C- ) or (EAI 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; EAI 6010 with a minimum grade of C- )

Management (MGMT)
Management - CPS (MGT)

ALY 6160. Business Intelligence in Healthcare/Pharmaceutical. (3 Hours)
Focuses on the use of and interplay between secondary data, primary market research, competitive
intelligence, and forecasting within healthcare/pharmaceutical organizations. Introduces excellence in
analytics on the pathway to market and launch planning. Discusses the approach and contribution of
competitive intelligence as a critical component to the success of creating business insight. Also discusses
excellence in forecasting and how the different business intelligence components of data, primary market
research, and competitive intelligence shape sales and demand forecasts.

Management Information
Systems (MISM)
Management Science (MGSC)
Managerial Economics (MECN)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 (may be taken concurrently) with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum
grade of C-

Marketing (MKTG)
Marketing - CPS (MKT)

ALY 6980. Capstone. (3 Hours)
Offers an advanced practicum in the development and delivery of predictive data analysis for strategic
decision making in organizations. Students apply the principles and tools of analytics to a comprehensive realworld problem or project within a sponsoring organization. Expects students to present analytical insights and
recommendations for successful implementation of their capstone project and their individual project
proposal.

Materials Engineering (MATL)
Mathematics (MATH)
Mathematics - CPS (MTH)
Mathematics - CPS Specialty
(MATM)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6080 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6040 with a minimum grade of C- ; ((ALY 6110 with
a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6020 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (ALY 6060 with a minimum grade of C- ;
ALY 6120 with a minimum grade of C- ) or (EAI 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; EAI 6010 with a minimum
grade of C- )); ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6015 with a
minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6050 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6070 with a minimum grade of C-

Mechanical and Industrial
Engineering (MEIE)
Mechanical Engineering (ME)
Mechanical Engineering
Technology - CPS (MET)

ALY 6983. Topics. (3 Hours)
Discusses contemporary topics in analytics for a rotating variety of industries (nonprofit and for-profit).

Media and Screen Studies (MSCR)

Prerequisite(s): ALY 6000 with a minimum grade of C- ; ALY 6010 with a minimum grade of C-

Medical Sciences (MSCI)

ALY 6995. Project. (1-4 Hours)
Focuses on an in-depth project in which a student conducts research or produces a product related to the
student’s major field.

Mills College Transfer (MILS)
Music (MUSC)
Music - CPS (MUS)
Music Industry (MUSI)
Music Performance - NEC (MPNC)
Music Technology (MUST)
Nanomedicine (NNMD)
Network Science (NETS)
Nonprofit Management - CPS
(NPM)
Nursing (NRSG)
Nutrition - CPS (NTR)
Operations Research (OR)
Organizational Behavior (ORGB)
Pharmaceutical Science (PHSC)
Pharmaceutics (PMST)
Pharmacology (PMCL)
Pharmacy Practice (PHMD)
PhD Experiential Leadership
(PHDL)
Philosophy (PHIL)
Philosophy - CPS (PHL)
Philosophy - CPS Specialty (PHLS)
Physical Therapy (PT)
Physical Therapy - CPS (PTH)
Physician Assistant (PA)
Physics (PHYS)
Physics - CPS (PHY)
Political Science (POLS)
Political Science - CPS (POL)
Political Science - CPS Specialty
(PLSC)
Portuguese (PORT)
Project Management - CPS (PJM)
Psychology (PSYC)
Psychology - CPS (PSY)
Public Health (PHTH)
Public Policy and Urban Affairs
(PPUA)
Public Relations - CPS (PBR)
Regulatory Affairs - CPS (RGA)
Regulatory Affairs of Food - CPS
(RFA)
Remote Sensing - CPS (RMS)
Respiratory Therapy - CPS (RPT)
Russian (RSSN)
Sales Management - CPS (SMT)
School of the Museum of Fine Arts
(SMFA)
Sociology (SOCL)
Sociology - CPS (SOC)
Sociology - CPS Specialty (SCLY)
Spanish (SPNS)
Speech-Language Pathology and
Audiology (SLPA)
Strategic Intelligence and Analysis
- CPS (SIA)
Strategy (STRT)
Study Abroad (ABRD)
Study Abroad - Business (ABRB)
Study Abroad - CPS Specialty
(ABRC)
Study Abroad - Law (ABRL)
Study Abroad - Science (ABRS)
Study Abroad - Social Sciences
and Humanities (ABRH)
Study USA (ABRU)
Supply Chain Management
(SCHM)
Sustainable Building Systems
(SBSY)
Sustainable Urban Environments
(SUEN)
Technical Communications - CPS
(TCC)
Telecommunication Systems
(TELE)
Technology Leadership (TELR)
Theatre (THTR)
Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality
Studies (WMNS)
Addendum
Catalog Archives

 Print Options

Boston
Portland

Arlington

Burlington

San Francisco

Seattle

Charlotte

London

Silicon Valley

Nahant

Toronto

Oakland

Vancouver

360 Huntington Ave., Boston, Massachusetts 02115 | 617.373.2000 | TTY 617.373.3768 | Emergency Information
© 2023-2024 Northeastern University

| myNortheastern

Privacy Policy

