page_content='












          Student Financial Services
      
















Student Financial Services















































FAFSA Update: The 2024-2025 FAFSA is available to complete online. Due to Federal delays in releasing FAFSA information, Northeastern will require additional time to process your offer of financial assistance. Please visit our FAFSA Updates Page for more information and timely announcements.
 













Student Financial Services
Veterans




Search





















        Applying For Aid
        

Undergraduate


Graduate


College of Professional Studies


International Students


School of Law


FAFSA Updates


Financial Aid FAQ


CARES Act Report






        Billing & Payments
        

Tuition and Fees


Payment Methods


Financing Options


Billing FAQ


1098-T


Direct Deposit


Student Financial Responsibility Agreement (SFRA)


Financing the N.U.in Program


Payment Partners


Collections Partners





Student Employment



        Forms
        

Northeastern Forms


Outside Forms






        Policies
        

Billing Policies


Appeals for Special & Unusual Circumstances


Code of Conduct


Federal Verification


Receiving Your Financial Aid


Refunds from Credit Balances & Withdrawals


Rights and Responsibilities


Satisfactory Academic Progress


Student Refunds


Tax Credits and Deductions


Title IV Credit Authorizations


Withdrawal/Leave of Absence





Support



        Contact
        

Leadership


Leadership Team


Contact Information




























Support and Services
We remain committed to partnering with the Northeastern community to support a safe campus experience. Learn more about visiting our office, expanded remote services, and resources.



                  Learn More
                








Next Steps for Enrolled Students
If you have questions about next steps related to your financial aid, billing, viewing your student account and more, view our dedicated page for incoming students in the Undergraduate Day program.



                  Learn More
                








Frequently Asked Questions: Billing
Questions about the billing process or what’s included on the billing statement? Visit our dedicated FAQ page for answers to the most common questions.



                  Learn More
                








Support and Services
Enrolled Students
Billing FAQ








Expert Advice. Personalized Support.
Financing your education shouldn’t be complicated. Our expert team will help you navigate the forms, terminology, numbers, and deadlines associated with applying for and receiving financial aid. Together, we’ll create a financial plan that makes sense for you and your family’s unique financial circumstances.


Contact Us






By The Numbers




$437M
institutional financial aid will be awarded in the 2023-2024 academic year




50% 
of Northeastern students graduate with no debt




97%
of graduates obtained full-time employment or enrolled in graduate school within nine months of graduation




+75%
new Northeastern students receive some form of financial aid
























Scholarship Opportunities
Hard work does pay off. At Northeastern, we recognize the achievements of our most qualified undergraduate students with a variety of grants and scholarships. These students distinguish themselves as some of the nation’s top creative thinkers, intrepid entrepreneurs, and motivated researchers.


Find Out More





The Northeastern Promise





We are dedicated to meeting the full demonstrated need for each admitted student eligible for federal financial aid.*





Northeastern University Scholarship and grant funds will not be reduced during your undergraduate program (for up to eight in-class semesters).**





Northeastern University need-based grant funds will be increased annually at the same percentage rate as the increase in tuition.





If your family experiences a substantial negative change in financial circumstances, we will reevaluate your aid package and make available all financial resources for which you qualify.







Student Financial Services Blog







                  Updated 1098-T Information for Tax Year 2023
                

As of 2/28/2024, 1098-T statements for the 2023 tax year are available to current students in the student hub. For step-by-step instructions on how to obtain your…



Read More









                  Updates to the Student Financial Services contact procedure
                

Prior to the end of the Fall 2023 term, SFS will implement the new, user-friendly Student Financial Services Inquiry Form in the self-service portal. Learn more…



Read More









                  2023 1098-T Forms
                

2023 1098-T Forms for eligible students will be available online at Heartland ESCI by January 31, 2024. Once your…



Read More













What's New(s) in Student Financial Services?


              Updated 1098-T Information for Tax Year 2023
            



              Updates to the Student Financial Services contact procedure
            



              2023 1098-T Forms
            



              Information for students and parents with Federal Direct student loans
            



              ABSN Program
            





Helpful Links

Applying For Aid


2023-2024 Tuition and Fees


Payment Methods


Financing Options


1098-T





Financial Tool Kit

Financial Tools and Calculators





Contact
Contact Us
354 Richards Hall
Regular Hours: Mon-Fri 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m.,
General Inquires 4:30 p.m.- 5:00 p.m.
617.373.3190 (Financial Aid)
617.373.2270 (Billing & Payments)





























' metadata={'source': 'https://studentfinance.northeastern.edu/', 'title': '\n          Student Financial Services\n      ', 'description': "Welcome to Student Financial Services. We're committed to helping you make your Northeastern education a reality. We offer expert advice, personalized support, and scholarship opportunities.", 'language': 'en-US'}
